---
layout: post
title: How to encrypt your `Sites` folder on a Mac
---

## {{ page.title }}

After working for a few years on web development I realized that during
development I store a lot of passwords in plain text on my computer. Being
quite paranoid this naturally caused problems. I didn't think much of it until
I found out how to create an encrypted disk image. I've first accomplished this
on my Mac at work but will be documenting how to do so on other platforms
shortly.

Note: On the "Pick..." lines, I've included what I chose in braces {}.

### Mac 10.5+.x

#### Create the Encrypted Container

1. Open "Disk Utility" and click "New Image" in the toolbar.
2. Pick a location to save the Image file. {~/Documents/Development
   Sites.sparsebundle}
3. Pick a Volume Name. {DevRoot}
4. Pick a Volume Size. {Custom -> 8 GB}
5. Pick a Volume Format. {Mac OS Extended (Case-sensitive, Journaled)}
6. For Encryption, use "256-bit AES Encryption"
7. For Partitions, use "Single Partition - GUID Partition Map"
8. For Image Format, use "Sparse Bundle Disk Image"
9. Click "Create"
1. You will be asked to create a password for the image, pick a really long
   password and then click "Ok"

I checked "Remember password..." so that I don't have to type it in every time
I restart my computer (My keychain password is relatively secure). If you don't
use the image on a daily basis, leave this unchecked for security.

Once the container is created it is automatically mounted. Unmount it by
dragging the icon to the trash and then remount it to make sure you remembered
the password correctly.

#### Create Auto-mount script

1. Create a new file and paste the following code in to the file:
   <script src="http://gist.github.com/286375.js?file=attach-disk-image.sh"> </script>
2. Change the "SOURCE" variable to match your environment.
2. Save the file with a `.sh` extension somewhere in your home folder.
3. Open "System Preferences" and click "Accounts"
4. Click on your user account.
5. Click the "Login Items" tab.
6. Click the "+" and then find the file you just created.
7. Log-out and back in again and you should now have your `Sites` folder
   transformed and linked to the encrypted partition.

#### Hide the desktop icon

TODO
